DOCSP-37550-count-documents (#54)
mongodb/docs-pymongo: source/read/count.txt

.. _pymongo-count:

===============
Count Documents
===============

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference

.. meta::

>    :keywords: number, amount, estimation

Reviewer: S: I think for SEO we always want to include this where applicable
```suggestion
   :keywords: code example, number, amount, estimation
```

Overview
---------

In this guide, you can learn how to retrieve an accurate and estimated count of the
number of documents in a collection.

Retrieve an Accurate Count
--------------------------

Use the ``count_documents()`` method to count the number of documents that are in a
collection. To count the number of documents that match a specific search

> critera, pass dictionary that includes a query filter to the
> ``count_documents()`` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
critera, pass a dictionary that includes a query filter to the
``count_documents()`` method.
```

   * - ``hint``
     - | Gets or sets the index to scan for documents.

Retrieve an Estimated Count
---------------------------

You can get an estimate of the number of documents in a collection by calling
the ``estimated_document_count()`` method. The method estimates the amount of
documents based on collection metadata, which might be faster than performing an 
accurate count.

The following example estimates the number of documents in a collection:

.. code-block:: python
   
   collection.estimated_document_count()

Customize Estimated Count Behavior
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``estimated_document_count()`` method accepts optional parameters, which
represent options you can use to configure the count operation. If you don't
specify any options, the driver does not customize the count operation.

The following table describes the options you can set to customize ``estimated_document_count()``:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 70
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Property
     - Description

   * - ``comment``
     - | A comment to attach to the operation.

   * - ``maxTimeMS``
     - | The maximum amount of time to allow the operation to run, in
         milliseconds.

> API Documentation
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: S; move this section up one level, right now it is nested under "Retrieve an Estimated Count"
```suggestion
API Documentation
-----------------
```

.. uses tutorial.rst

.. _pymongo-count:

===============
Count Documents
===============

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference

.. meta::
   :keywords: number, amount, estimation

Overview
---------

> In this guide, you can learn how to get an accurate and estimated count of the
> number of documents in your collection.

Reviewer: S: nit just because "get" sounds too informal
```suggestion
In this guide, you can learn how to retrieve an accurate and estimated count of the
number of documents in a collection.
```

Get an Accurate Count
----------------------

> Use the ``count_documents()`` command to count the number of documents that are in a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the ``count_documents()`` method to count the number of documents that are in a
```

> collection. To count the number of documents that match a specific search
> critera, pass the ``count_documents()`` method a dictionary that specifies a
> query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
collection. To count the number of documents that match a specific search
critera, pass a dictionary object that includes a query filter to the ``count_documents()`` method.
```

To learn more about specifying a query, see :ref:`pymongo-specify-query`.

Count All Documents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To return a count of all documents in the collection, pass an empty dictionary to
the ``count_documents()`` method, as shown in the following example:

.. code-block:: python

>    collection = database["collection_name"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   collection = database["<collection name>"]
```

>    collection = database["collection_name"]

Reviewer: Q: do the code examples in this page need this line? Could you instead just show the actual method call?

Author: The intent was to make it clear that `collection` here is a variable for their collection rather than the method needing to be prepended with the word "collection" but I think that was probably over explaining a bit. Removed the line in favor of being more concise.

   collection.count_documents({})

Count Specific Documents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To return a count of documents that match specific search criteria, specify your
query in the ``count_documents()`` method, as shown in the following example:

.. code-block:: python

   collection = database["collection_name"]
   
   collection.count_documents({ "author": "Mike" })

Customize Count Behavior
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The ``count_documents()`` method optionally accepts additional

Reviewer 2: Not a review, but suggested solution to solve for the Vale rule:
"... method accepts optional parameters, which ..."

parameters, which represent options you can use to configure the count

> operation. If you don't specify any additional options, the driver does not customize

Reviewer: ```suggestion
operation. If you don't specify any options, the driver does not customize
```

the count operation.

> 

Reviewer: S: add an intro to the table

"The following table describes each of the options that you can set to customize the count operation:"

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 70
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Property
     - Description

   * - ``comment``
     - | A comment to attach to the operation.

   * - ``session``
     - | An instance of ``ClientSession``.

   * - ``skip``
     - | The number of documents to skip before returning results.

   * - ``limit``
     - | The maximum number of documents to count. Must be a positive integer.

   * - ``maxTimeMS``
     - | The maximum amount of time to allow the operation to run, in
         milliseconds.
     
   * - ``collation``
     - | An instance of ``Collation``.

   * - ``hint``
     - | Gets or sets the index to scan for documents.

> Get an Estimated Count

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Estimate Number of Documents
```

Author: I left this (but changed "get" to "retrieve") so that it mirrors the wording in the Overview section and in the other main header.

----------------------

> You can get an estimate of the number of documents in a collection by calling
> the ``estimated_document_count()`` method. The method estimates the amount of
> documents based on collection metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can retrieve an estimate of the number of documents in a collection by calling
the ``estimated_document_count()`` method. The method estimates the amount of
documents based on collection metadata, which might be faster than performing an 
accurate count.
```

The following example estimates the number of documents in a collection:

.. code-block:: python

   collection = database["collection_name"]
   
   collection.estimated_document_count()

Customize Estimated Count Behavior
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The ``estimated_document_count()`` method optionally accepts additional

Reviewer: S: same comments as in the prev options section apply here!
